Create Bare Metal preparation docs (#2410)
aws/eks-anywhere: docs/content/en/docs/reference/baremetal/bare-preparation.md

description: >
  Set up a Bare Metal cluster to prepare it for EKS Anywhere
---
After gathering hardware described in Bare Metal [Requirements]({{< relref "./bare-prereq" >}}), you need to prepare the hardware and create a CSV file describing that hardware.

## Prepare hardware
To prepare your computer hardware for EKS Anywhere, you need to connect your computer hardware and do some configuration.
Once the hardware is in place, you need to:

> * Obtain IP addresses to assign to the IPMI and regular NIC interface on each machine in the cluster.

Reviewer: The ipmi IP addresses should already be assigned. We will only need IP addresses to assign to the NICs. I would split this up into 2
```suggestion
* Obtain IP and MAC addresses for your machines' NICs.
* Obtain IP addresses for your machines' IPMI interfaces.
```

Author: Okay. Done.

Author: Done

* Obtain the gateway address for your network to reach the Internet.
* Obtain the IP address for your DNS servers.
* Make sure the following settings are in place:
  * UEFI is enabled on all target cluster machines

>   * PXE boot is enabled on each NIC

Reviewer: They only need PXE enabled on the NIC whose IP and MAC addresses they provide in the first step. I will let you phrase that nicely

Author: Done.

Author: Done.

  * PXE is set as the first device in each machine's boot order
  * IPMI over LAN is enabled on the IPMI interfaces
* Go to the IPMI settings for each machine and set the IP address (bmc_ip), username (bmc_username), and password (bmc_password) to use later in the CSV file.

## Prepare hardware inventory
Create a CSV file to provide information about all physical machines that you are ready to add to your target Bare Metal cluster.
This file will be used:

* When you generate the hardware file to be included in the cluster creation process described in the [Create Bare Metal production cluster]({{< relref "../../getting-started/production-environment" >}}) Getting Started guide.
* To provide information that is passed to each machine from the Tinkerbell DHCP server when the machine is initially PXE booted.

The following is an example of an EKS Anywhere Bare Metal hardware CSV file:

```

> hostname,bmc_ip,bmc_username,bmc_password,mac,ip_address,netmask,gateway,nameservers,labels,disk
> eksa-cp01,10.10.44.1,root,PrZ8W93i,CC:48:3A:00:00:01,10.10.50.2,255.255.254.0,10.10.50.1,X.X.X.X,,/dev/sda
> eksa-cp02,10.10.44.2,root,Me9xQf93,CC:48:3A:00:00:02,10.10.50.3,255.255.254.0,10.10.50.1,X.X.X.X,,/dev/sda
> eksa-wk01,10.10.44.3,root,Z8x2M6hl,CC:48:3A:00:00:03,10.10.50.4,255.255.254.0,10.10.50.1,X.X.X.X,,/dev/sda
> eksa-wk02,10.10.44.4,root,B398xRTp,CC:48:3A:00:00:04,10.10.50.5,255.255.254.0,10.10.50.1,X.X.X.X,,/dev/sda
> eksa-wk03,10.10.44.5,root,w7EenR94,CC:48:3A:00:00:05,10.10.50.6,255.255.254.0,10.10.50.1,X.X.X.X,,/dev/sda

Reviewer: I would put 3 control planes and 2 worker nodes here and provide the labels
```suggestion
hostname,bmc_ip,bmc_username,bmc_password,mac,ip_address,netmask,gateway,nameservers,labels,disk
eksa-cp01,10.10.44.1,root,PrZ8W93i,CC:48:3A:00:00:01,10.10.50.2,255.255.254.0,10.10.50.1,8.8.8.8|8.8.4.4,type=cp,/dev/sda
eksa-cp02,10.10.44.2,root,Me9xQf93,CC:48:3A:00:00:02,10.10.50.3,255.255.254.0,10.10.50.1,8.8.8.8|8.8.4.4,type=cp,/dev/sda
eksa-cp03,10.10.44.3,root,Z8x2M6hl,CC:48:3A:00:00:03,10.10.50.4,255.255.254.0,10.10.50.1,8.8.8.8|8.8.4.4,type=cp,/dev/sda
eksa-wk01,10.10.44.4,root,B398xRTp,CC:48:3A:00:00:04,10.10.50.5,255.255.254.0,10.10.50.1,8.8.8.8|8.8.4.4,type=worker,/dev/sda
eksa-wk02,10.10.44.5,root,w7EenR94,CC:48:3A:00:00:05,10.10.50.6,255.255.254.0,10.10.50.1,8.8.8.8|8.8.4.4,type=worker,/dev/sda
```

Author: Done.

description: >
  Set up a Bare Metal cluster to prepare it for EKS Anywhere
---
After gathering hardware described in Bare Metal [Requirements]({{< relref "./bare-prereq" >}}), you need to prepare the hardware and create a CSV file describing that hardware.

## Prepare hardware
To prepare your computer hardware for EKS Anywhere, you need to connect your computer hardware and do some configuration.
The following figure provides an example of an EKS Anywhere Bare Metal cluster consisting of three control plane and two worker machines:

**_NEED TO ADD A HARDWARE DIAGRAM AND SHORT DESCRIPTION OF EACH COMPONENT._**

Once the hardware is in place, you need to:

* Obtain IP addresses to assign to the IPMI and regular NIC interface on each machine in the cluster.
* Obtain the gateway address for your network to reach the Internet.
* Obtain the IP address for your DNS servers.
* Make sure the following settings are in place:
  * UEFI is enabled on all target cluster machines
  * PXE boot is enabled on each NIC
  * PXE is set as the first device in each machine's boot order
  * IPMI over LAN is enabled on the IPMI interfaces

> * Go to the IPMI settings for each machine and set the IP address (bnc_ip), username (bnc_username), and password (bnc_password) to use later in the CSV file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Go to the IPMI settings for each machine and set the IP address (bmc_ip), username (bmc_username), and password (bmc_password) to use later in the CSV file.
```

This file will be used:

* When you generate the hardware file to be included in the cluster creation process described in the [Create Bare Metal production cluster]({{< relref "../../getting-started/production-environment" >}}) Getting Started guide.
* To provide information that is passed to each machine from the Tinkerbell DHCP server when the machine is initially PXE booted.

The following is an example of an EKS Anywhere Bare Metal hardware CSV file:

```
hostname,bmc_ip,bmc_username,bmc_password,mac,ip_address,netmask,gateway,nameservers,labels,disk
eksa-cp01,10.10.44.1,root,PrZ8W93i,CC:48:3A:00:00:01,10.10.50.2,255.255.254.0,10.10.50.1,X.X.X.X,,/dev/sda
eksa-cp02,10.10.44.2,root,Me9xQf93,CC:48:3A:00:00:02,10.10.50.3,255.255.254.0,10.10.50.1,X.X.X.X,,/dev/sda
eksa-wk01,10.10.44.3,root,Z8x2M6hl,CC:48:3A:00:00:03,10.10.50.4,255.255.254.0,10.10.50.1,X.X.X.X,,/dev/sda
eksa-wk02,10.10.44.4,root,B398xRTp,CC:48:3A:00:00:04,10.10.50.5,255.255.254.0,10.10.50.1,X.X.X.X,,/dev/sda
eksa-wk03,10.10.44.5,root,w7EenR94,CC:48:3A:00:00:05,10.10.50.6,255.255.254.0,10.10.50.1,X.X.X.X,,/dev/sda

```

> The CSV file is a comma-separated list of values in a plain text file, representing physical control plane and worker machines (not virtual machines) in your cluster.

Reviewer 2: I think we should probably be more clear and say that this file should have information about the physical machines in the datacenter that are intended to be a part of the cluster creation process

> Multiple values in an item can be separated by pipe symbols (|).

Reviewer 2: I don't think we will have multiple values for anything anymore. So we can remove this to avoid confusion

Author: I believe we do. You can use multiple labels that are separated by pipes.

Author: I removed the description of pipes.

The following sections describe each value.

### hostname
The hostname assigned to the machine.

> ### bnc_ip

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### bmc_ip
```

Author: Well, at least I was consistently wrong. Fixed.

The IP address assigned to the IPMI interface on the machine.
### bmc_username
The username assigned to the IPMI interface on the machine.

> ### bnc_password

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### bmc_password
```

Author: Fixed.

The password associated with the `bmc_username` assigned to the IPMI interface on the machine.
### mac
The MAC address of the network interface card (NIC) that provides access to the host computer.
### ip_address
The IP address providing access to the host computer.
### netmask
The netmask associated with the `ip_address` value.
In the example above, a /23 subnet mask is used, allowing you to use up to 510 IP addresses in that range. 
### gateway
IP address of the interface that provides access (the gateway) to the Internet.
### nameservers
The IP address of the server that you want to provide DNS service to the cluster.
### labels

> Optional labels you can set on each node that are added to any labels set on that node by the cluster.

Reviewer 2: Labels are not added to the 'node' per say. This would be a bit confusing. These labels are only added to the 'Hardware' CRD in the cluster, not the Kubernetes node.

Author: Okay. I changed "node" to "machine" to make that clearer.

> These labels consist of key/value pairs that can be used by Kubernetes to match workloads that request nodes with those labels.

Author: I changed the whole description to just talk about this field's use with hardwareSelector.

See Kubernetes [Labels and Selectors](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/) for details.

Labels can also be used in conjunction with the `hardwareSelector` field when you set up your [Bare Metal configuration]({{< relref "../clusterspec/baremetal/" >}}).
For example, if you had the `controlPlaneConfiguration.machineGroupRef.TinkerbellMachineConfig` name set to `my-cluster-name-cp` and a `hardwareSelector` under the `TinkerbellMachineConfig` definition for that name set to `node: "cp-machine"`, that machine would be added to the control plane.

In this CSV field, each key/value pair is connected with an equal (`=`) sign.

> For example, you could set `environment=test` on one node and `environment=production` on another to allow workloads to request the appropriate node to run on based on their stage of development.

Reviewer 2: Again, not for workloads to select.

> Use a pipe (|) symbol to add multiple labels to one field. For example, to set a machine as a worker node to be used for production workloads, the field might appear as follows: `node=worker-node|environment=production`.

Reviewer 2: Let me double-check but I think we got rid of allowing multiple values here.
